[Music]
welcome to b2b marketing and more with
your host Pam dinner as leading
marketing and sales enablement
strategist keynote speaker and author
Pam created this podcast to share our
professional experience and insights and
help you to be a great b2b marketer you
enjoy the podcast please share it with
your colleagues and leave a review on
iTunes now let's get started hello
welcome to another episode of YouTube
e-marketing and more with Pam dinner
this is p.m. this is my podcast that I
share my no house and the templates I
want to help you see b2b marketing from
different lights and be a better b2b
marketer so I spent several episodes
talking about messaging framework I
share templates on episode 102 103 and
104 I bet you guys are tired of it for
today I want to share a personal story
and talk about how to prioritize you'll
were close when you and your team are
overworked and understaffed so a friend
call me up several days ago that's call
my friend Mary and I haven't heard from
her for over two years
I was so happy I mean so happy to hear
voice when I pick up the call and I say
oh my god I'm so happy that you call how
you doing before she could answer me she
started crying I was like did someone
die or get hurt was she fired what
happened at the moment I had many
questions but I decided not to ask and
just let her cry after three to five
minutes she apologized that she hadn't
called for a long time and I told her
don't fog eyes I have being a bad friend
as well I hadn't called either this is
literally what she said to me okay
Pam I see you creating content speaking
taking on client projects and promoting
yourself you are doing several persons
job are you exhausted or tired I can
barely manage my own job
that was just one job and then she told
me that her company recently had a
massive rework the manager she adored
left the company at the same time she
lost two people out of the five person
team the company had a massive product
launch
there were many glitches prior to the
launch I get it you know I work on
multiple different product launches and
there's always tons of over time prior
to the product launches and she was
working 70 hours a week and the
workloads actually went up after the
launch was over because the team or the
management team wanted to continue to
build momentum and she just couldn't
catch up
she finally hit a breaking point when
she called me that day and she was tired
exhausted and she wanted to quit a job
first things first I told her don't quit
her job her company is a great company
and I told her that by weekly paycheck
trust me by weekly paycheck is super
nice and I told her that she does not
want to do what I do alright if she
knows the number of hours I actually
work it's ridiculous and I also told her
that I am tired and exhausted all the
time I mean all the time I just happen
to hide it very well if she gets a
chance to see me a night I look like a
panda with black circles around my eyes
I look horrible well it's really not
about me okay it's about Mary I told her
that she needs to address her workloads
head-on and here are my suggestions pour
actively to address that number one I
told her the first things she need to do
is to have a conversation with her
current manager she needs to explain to
a manager what she has accomplished so
far right she needs to let her manager
know that she has been working over 70
hours a week in the past several months
to support a major product launch and
after the product launch the hours
didn't decrease it started to affect at
this time her productivity creativity
and the work and life balance she needs
to have a conversation with a manager
and the work
that our manager to prioritize her
workloads right of course with his
approval frankly this type of
conversation may or may not go well and
some managers trust me don't like to
hear this type of issues they just want
that to go away give it a try and it's
very important to that a manager know
and having that conversation is a
starting point my second suggestion is
can we hire a contractor or an agency to
help her out I asked Mary if she has a
marketing budget if she does can she
farm out some of the work not to take on
that herself sometimes is easier to
spend money or allocate budget to get
agencies or contractors to help you out
the downside of that is you need to ramp
up the contractors or the agency which
sometimes may take more time however is
certainly an option worth exploring the
third suggestion is to talk to internal
stakeholders she has multiple major
requests coming from internal
stakeholders
I suggest that she talks to them and
explain the situation to them that she
lost two people and she has been working
over 70 hours and is really not
sustainable at this point she needs to
prioritize her and her teams were close
and some stuff won't get done or will be
delayed and that's the way it is the
floor suggestion is to put things in
perspective I told her at the end of the
day marketing is not life and death it's
not like we are doctors and if we don't
meet the deadlines today or what not
someone would die for digital they are
always some ways that you can go back
and to amend you know the blog post or
change the videos or we do the content
that's assume you have a massive PR
nightmare you can still find a way to
fix it after the event right it can be
horrible at that moment that is always a
way to fix the situation but with a
life-and-death situation is much harder
to amend and whenever I am super
stressed and I always try to sit back
and
remind myself that everything I do is
not life and death if I don't get this
done today all right my customers or my
clients may be upset but if I can
explain to them calmly
and logically and hopefully they will
understand so changing my attitude when
I'm stressed does help me to relax a
little bit right just put things in
perspective the last suggestion I share
with Mary is to let it out and I told
Mary that I was so happy so happy that
she called and I'm super flattered that
she called me and talking to someone
when you are super stressed does
alleviate stress talk it through talk it
out really don't hold up here's a quick
follow-up to the story mary did talk to
a manager and internal stakeholders her
manager was very understanding and
allocated some budget to hire contractor
to help out the team her stakeholders
not so much were very annoyed and not
too understanding about the whole
situation and they are incredibly
demanding and results-driven and she had
to get her manager to have a
conversation with the senior managers of
internal stakeholders things are slowly
improving but is still stressful and I
guess sometimes that's the way it is
right the point is that she is
proactively managing her were close and
in making adjustments on regular basis
so that's the way it should be and so
you go girl to be honest I know how
stressful it can be working in a
corporate America I was in a corporate
America for over 20 years I get it I
hope that if you are working in the big
enterprise and you are stressful and you
work in low hours you are making effort
to prioritize your workloads and take
care of yourself again it will be
greatly appreciated that you can like
comment
[Music]
if you enjoyed this podcast we share
with your colleagues and leave review on
iTunes U on iTunes
[Music]